Add language guide for Ruby (#37)
codecrafters-io/docs: docs/challenges/language-support/ruby.mdx

---
title: "Ruby"
description: "Learn how to solve CodeCrafters challenges in Ruby"
---

<Note> **New to Ruby?** We recommend [Ruby in Twenty Minutes](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/quickstart/) to get up to speed.</Note>

# Local development

To run the code for your challenge locally, you'll need `ruby` installed. Our test runners use version `3.3` (as of May 2024).

> The script for your challenge (like `./spawn_redis_server.sh`) will run the code using [Bundler](https://bundler.io/), a dependency manager which comes preinstalled with Ruby. It looks something like this:

Reviewer: I don't think bundler doesn't come pre-installed with ruby, @glokta1 can you confirm if this is true?

Reviewer: Ah, nice find! Back in the day we had to do `gem install bundler` 🙂 All good then!

```sh
#!/bin/sh

exec bundle exec ruby app/main.rb "$@"
```

# File structure

- The files for your solution are placed in the `app/` directory.
- `app/main.rb` is the entrypoint of the project.

# Adding more files

You can add more files and directories to `app/`. The test runner will include them when compiling your code.

For example, if you added a file at `app/foo.rb`, you could use it like so:

<CodeGroup>
```Ruby app/foo.rb
def foo
    puts "Hello world!"
end
````

```Ruby app/main.rb
require_relative 'foo'

foo();  # Calls foo() defined in app/foo.rb
```

</CodeGroup>

# Adding dependencies

> `Gemfile` lists your project's dependencies. You can add depdendencies by specifying the name of the gem and optionally the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Gemfile` lists your project's dependencies. You can add dependencies by specifying the name of the gem and optionally the version.
```

For example, To add the `nokogiri` gem, add the following line to your `Gemfile`:

```Gemfile
gem 'nokogiri'
```

Then run the following command to install it:

```bash
bundle install
```

> It will also update your `Gemfile.lock` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will also update your `Gemfile.lock` file.
```

(If this was copied from the Rust docs for consistency, note that there's a section above that line that uses "This command", that's why "it" makes sense in that section)
